All right, guys, welcome back to a new video, and in this video, we're going to put together the
kind of functional requirements of our application now again, in a real world situation, you would
spend a lot of time on this process and multiple people would be involved.
But in this video, I just want to give you kind of an overview to have a clearer picture of what we're
going to be building in our application and what kind of data we're going to be using and also what
kind of data we're going to be storing in our back API that we will build using Firebase.
OK, so we will see all of that.
So for this purpose, let's go ahead and create a diagram of these screens of our application, and
we're going to extract some requirements from those.
So first of all, the main squeeze that we're going to need are going to be the kind of sign up and
log in screen.
So I'm going to have here sign up screen.
OK.
So that's going to be the screen to create a user.
And the screen for logging if we have an existing user.
And of course, for this, we're going to need Firebase authentication.
OK.
That will require username and password.
All right.
Let's arrange this a little bit nicer.
OK, so we will use Firebase authentication for the sign up process.
OK, here we go.
All right.
So we have our two screens for the authentication.
Now let's move a bit past that because Firebase authentication will be kind of on its own.
And once that is done, we can kind of forget about it.
OK, so the main screen that we're going to have is we're going to have a kind of a feed screen here.
Now, even though this is the first screen that the user sees, I think for us it will be the last screen
that we're going to be building because we need a lot of infrastructure for this screen.
We need to have a user image, a user name we need to have post.
We need to have follows.
So this will kind of be the last thing we're going to be building.
Now, more importantly, we're going to build here a milepost screen.
OK.
Let me put a text here up above because we want to style this a little bit.
So my posts screen.
All right.
So my screen will basically be then you zoom in a little bit.
OK.
Basically, it will be the screen where we can create new posts.
OK, and we have a few elements here.
So first of all, I'm going to add here an image at the top.
OK.
This is going to be a user image and at the top as well.
We will have some information about how many posts we've created, user followers following, etc..
OK, so we will have, for instance, three posts.
OK.
And we will have, let's say, two hundred followers.
OK, whatever information we need to display here, it will be at the top of the screen.
Then down below we will have some user information.
OK, so here we will have, let's say, username.
And we will have bio.
OK, the data for that user that we will fill out in the next screen that site, then we will have kind
of a button here
and this button will take us to edit profile.
OK, let me see if I can just a little bit bigger.
OK.
And then right below it, we will have some posts.
OK, so I have a post here.
I have a post here.
I have another post here.
OK.
You know, you can arrange this as well as you like.
All right, so I have my posts here that I can display the ones that I've already created.
OK, now from my post screen, if I click on user profile, I can then go to an edit profile screen.
OK, now this is going to be edit profile screen.
All right.
In my edit profile screen, I can do a few modifications, right?
So first of all, I can have a user image, OK, I can upload a user image, then I will have some added
functionality for my let's say name here.
Then I will have my username.
And I will also have my bio OK, and we have places to edit this information.
OK, so my name is going to be here.
Then I have my username and I have my bio.
And finally, at the end, I will have the logout
functionality.
All right.
So once we have this, we can kind of extract the information that we need for our user.
OK, so let's put that here and we're going to say user data and what do we need here?
So first of all, we're going to use a we have a user ID.
This will be quite useful in a number of situations to uniquely identify the user.
Next up, we have name, username and bio.
OK, so name, username and bio.
I'm not going to specify the types of data here because this is kind of generic in Scotland.
Obviously, these are going to be strings, so that's we're going to leave that for later.
We're also going to have an image.
You are right.
OK, so the basically the image that we have here and we're also going to have followers, OK, the
followers are going to be basically a list of other user IDs that follow my current user.
All right.
So we have that now.
Let's go ahead and create a new screen here.
So we have, for example, we have our search screen, OK for the third screen.
All right.
For the search screen, it's going to be quite simple, really, it's just going to have a kind of a
search bar here at the top.
OK, and then we're going to have a list of posts.
OK, the posts here that we're going to search for are basically going to send us to a new screen.
OK, and that will be the post screen.
Let me just move this a little bit here.
All right.
So this is the post screen and the post screen.
We can design it a little bit.
So I'm going to have kind of a user image here at the top.
Let me see if I can zoom in a little bit.
The Zoom is not quite there yet for this drawing up file, but it works.
All right, so I have my user image at the top.
Then I will have here the option to follow or unfollow this user.
OK?
We will have basically a text button that says either follow or unfollow, depending on whether or not
we've already followed this user.
Next up, I will have and post image here and then down below we will have, let's say, three likes,
and we will also have, let's say, five comments.
OK, so once we have this kind of structure, let's go ahead and tease out the data type for the post.
OK, that's pretty much all the information we need, I think.
So post data now here again, we will have a Post I.D. We will have a user ID.
OK, so we want to have the information for the user that has created this post and also going to store
a user name just for simplicity.
OK, we want to display the post here.
We want to have the user name, so we will need that as well.
Now I'm going to have a post image,
OK?
I'm also going to have let's see and have I have a host image?
I want to have a post description, which I haven't put here.
I forgot to put down below, but we can have the description here.
OK.
Host description.
OK, now we will also need a few things, so we're going to need a time.
OK?
We need to have this timestamp so that we can order our post in our feed.
And we're also going to need search terms so we can identify some search terms that will bring up this
particular post.
So when we search something here, we if this search term matches one of the search terms of the post,
we can display it.
And then finally, we're going to count the likes for this post.
OK, we're going to have a list of user IDs that have like this post.
Once we're done with that, clicking on the comments will bring us to a new screen here.
And this is going to be.
So let me put some text here.
Comments screen.
And let me put it here as well.
We're going to have post screen.
All right.
So I'm going to have a post screen.
I'm going to have a comment screen in this comment screen.
I'm going to have two things at the bottom.
So first of all, I'm going to have the kind of comment box here that allows me to comment to type my
comment in, and I'm going to have a comment button.
All right, let's see if that works, OK?
All right, so I have my comment button here.
And of course, I have a list of comments in my screen.
OK, so I have, let's say Alex has comment one.
And then let's say here John has comment too.
OK, so this is the list of comments that we will have so we can get the comment information as well.
The comment will be a new data type.
And we're going to have comment data.
And here we're going to have commented.
We're going to have posted so the the post that this comment refers to and we're going to have the username,
we need the text of the comment.
And we're going to have a timestamp so that we can order these comments correctly.
All right.
Now one thing, I'm missing one screen here and that is going to be the post creation screen, which
is quite simple.
Here at the top, I have two options.
I have cancel and I have
post, OK, I'm going to have an image that I can select.
OK.
Something like that.
And I will have here a description that I can type in and that will give me the post creation.
OK.
Let me just arrange this a little bit.
I'm not sure how.
So, first of all, how do we do this?
So from clicking on this image here will take me to the post creation and clicking on the edit profile
will take me here.
OK, now from the post screen, clicking on the comments will take me to the comments screen.
Somewhere here.
OK.
And I think that's it, so let me just put some results here.
This is the post result and clicking on that
will take me to the kind of post screen.
All right.
Something like that.
So it will take me from here to here to here, right?
What else do I need to sit here?
So Firebase, we have authentication and we have two more things that we require in Firebase.
So I'm going to have here Firebase Firestorm.
So the fire store is going to be our kind of database, so the user is going to be stored there.
The host data is going to be stored in Firebase and the comment data is also going to be in fire store
as well.
Let me see if I can put this somewhere better.
I cannot.
All right.
I'm just going to leave it here.
And let me just put it lower down below.
All right.
That's looking good.
So I have my Firebase fire store and I want to have also Firebase storage, and this storage is basically
going to be for the images.
OK, so I'm going to store my image, my user image in fires based storage, and I'm going to store
my post as well.
OK, so kind of this structure.
This is the structure that we're going to be building for our application.
You can see that we have quite a few different screens, but nothing really too crazy.
Of course, you with time in a real world project, you would kind of iterate and improve over this
design.
But for now, for the purposes of this course, I think this will be quite an interesting project to
build.
OK, we've got we have quite a bit of data, quite a bit of, you know, we are going to use Firebase
quite a bit.
One thing I forgot to mention, I think previously is that we're going to be using hilt quite a lot
for dependency injection, and we're also going to be building our application and the end in the Nvidia
architecture.
OK, so these two are going to be quite central to our design as well.
All right.
So I think that's it.
I hope I haven't forgotten anything.
In any case, this is kind of a first draft.
So of course, in code, we can change some things if we need to.
For now, I think though, it's going to be quite sufficient.
All right.
So that's it for kind of the design phase of our application.
In the next video, we will start to actually create the project and start coding.
All right.
And I will see you there.